AI/LLMs are permitted to be used with this project. With that said, there are some guidelines that
must be followed when using LLMs. Issues and pull requests that do not follow these guidelines may
be closed without review or explanation.

- **Using an LLM to generate content must be disclosed.** This does not include using an LLM solely
  for analysis, such as understanding of the codebase.
- **You are responsible for all contributions.** This includes ensuring that the content does not
  violate intellectual property rights.
- **All communication must be written by a human.** If we wanted to use LLMs in an automated way,
  including communication, we can do it ourselves; we neither need nor want you to do this. Small
  snippets for context are acceptable but must be clearly indicated as originating from an LLM.
- **All contributions must be reviewed in their entirety by a human.** If you cannot explain any
  given part of your contribution, including reasoning, it is not acceptable.
- **LLMs must not be included as an author or co-author in commits.** Ensure that your editor does
  not do this automatically.

That is not to say that LLMs are not useful. They are great for rote tasks such as generating
boilerplate code and tests, but they are not a substitute for human reasoning and understanding.

For reporting of security vulnerabilities, please see SECURITY.md. You must provide a human-written
description of the vulnerability and how to reproduce it; the reproduction may be generated by an
LLM.
