# Changelog

All notable changes to the time project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog]. This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning].

---

## 0.3.22 [2023-06-07]

### Added

- `OffsetDateTime::checked_to_offset`

## 0.3.21 [2023-05-05]

### Added

- Any formattable/parsable type can now be used with the `time::serde::format_description!` macro.
- `Weekday::nth_next`

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.65.0.

## 0.3.20 [2023-02-24]

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.63.0.
- On Unix-based operating systems with known thread-safe environments, functions obtaining the local
  offset no longer require a check that the program is single-threaded. This currently includes
  MacOS, illumos, and NetBSD.

### Added

- `[ignore]` component in format descriptions. A `count` modifier is required, indicating the number
  of bytes to ignore when parsing.
- `[unix_timestamp]` component in format descriptions. This is currently only usable with
  `OffsetDateTime`. Users can choose between seconds, milliseconds, microseconds, and nanoseconds,
  and whether the sign is mandatory or optional.

### Fixed

- The API for declaring soundness now uses stricter atomic orderings internally.

## 0.3.19 [2023-02-16]

### Fixed

This includes the update to the `format_description!` macro, which was supposed to be included in
0.3.18.

## 0.3.18 [2023-02-16]

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.62.0.

### Added

- `[first]` and `[optional]` items can now be included in format descriptions. To parse this at
  runtime, you must use the `format_description::parse_owned` method.
- `format_description::parse_borrowed`
- An API has been added to opt out of soundness checks for obtaining the local offset. This replaces
  the previous, officially unsupported `RUSTFLAGS="--cfg unsound_local_offset"`. End users may call
  `time::util::local_offset::set_soundness(time::util::local_offset::Soundness::Unsound)`. This
  method is `unsafe` because it enables undefined behavior if its safety requirements are not
  upheld. Note that libraries **must not** set this to `Unsound`, as it is impossible for a library
  to guarantee end users uphold the required invariants.

### Fixed

- Correctly parse offset sign when hour is zero. The parse was previously unconditionally positive,
  even if the sign indicated otherwise.
- Compilation is fixed for WebAssembly.

## 0.3.17 [2022-11-06]

### Changed

- The amount of code generated by `time::serde::format_description!` is reduced if not all feature
  flags are active.
- `cargo test --tests` works with any configuration of feature flags. This occurs by spawning a
  subprocess that passes `--all-features`. `cargo test --doc` works with most combinations of
  feature flags, including the default. The combination of these changes means that crater will now
  run on `time`.
- `libc` and `num_threads` are only included as dependencies when needed. They were previously
  unconditionally included.

### Added

- `time::format_description::parse_owned`, which returns an `OwnedFormatItem`. This avoids "lifetime
  hell", where all your structs now need a lifetime because a single field has one. Note that when
  possible, the borrowed format item (just called `FormatItem`) is still preferred, as it has
  significantly fewer allocations. The new `OwnedFormatItem` is usable for both formatting and
  parsing, as you would expect.

### Compatibility

- The parser for runtime format descriptions has been rewritten. A side effect of this is that some
  errors have slightly changed. No existing API has been altered, so this is not a breaking change.
  However, you may notice different errors, which are hopefully better! The parser for compile-time
  format descriptions has not yet been swapped out. If you notice any bugs, please file an issue.

## 0.3.16 [2022-10-24]

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.60.0.
- The `serde-well-known` feature flag is deprecated. The necessary features for an item to be
  enabled are indicated in documentation.
- Feature gates have been loosened for well-known formats.

### Added

- `const`s can now be provided as the format description for `time::serde::format_description!`. The
  `const` must be of type `&[FormatItem<'_>]`, which is what is returned by the
  `time::macros::format_description!` macro.

  ```rust
  const TIME_FORMAT_ALT: &[FormatItem<'_>] = time::macros::format_description!("[hour]:[minute]");
  time::serde::format_description!(time_format_alt, Time, TIME_FORMAT_ALT);
  ```

### Compatibility

- Some feature flags have been removed. None of these have ever been documented as flags, so any use
  was unsupported. These flags are:
  - `js-sys`
  - `quickcheck-dep`
  - `itoa`
  - `time-macros`

## 0.3.15 [2022-10-03]

### Changed

- Better gating for `tm_gmtoff` extension. This should eliminate build failures on some untested
  platforms.
- `Debug` output for types are now human-readable. While this should not be relied upon, it is
  currently the same as the output with `Display`.
- Eliminate overflows in the constructors for `Duration. When there is an overflow, the methods now
  panic. This was previously only the case in debug mode.
- Panic if `NaN` is passed to `Duration::from_secs_f32` or `Duration::from_secs_f64`.

### Fixed

- Fix error when deserializing data types from bytes. This affects formats such as JSON.
- Eliminate a panic in an edge case when converting `OffsetDateTime` to another `UtcOffset`. This
  occurred due to an old assumption in code that was no longer the case.

## 0.3.14 [2022-08-24]

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.59.0.
- `Duration::unsigned_abs` is now `const fn`.
- The const parameter for `time::format_description::well_known::Iso8601` now has a default. This
  means `Iso8601` is the same as `Iso8601::DEFAULT`.
- The `Parsed` struct has been reduced in size from 56 to 32 bytes (a 43% reduction).

## 0.3.13 [2022-08-09]

### Fixed

- wasm builds other than those using `wasm-bindgen` work again.

## 0.3.12 [2022-08-01]

### Added

- `js-sys` now supports obtaining the system's local UTC offset.

### Changed

- Performance of many `Date` operations has improved when using the `large-dates` feature.
- While an internal change, `OffsetDateTime` now stores the value in the attached `UtcOffset`, not
  UTC. This leads to significant performance gains on nearly all `OffsetDateTime` methods.

### Fixed

- Subtracting two `Time`s can no longer panic. This previously occurred in some situations where the
  result was invalid.
- ISO 8601 parsing rounds the subseconds to avoid incorrectly truncating the value.

## 0.3.11 [2022-06-21]

### Fixed

- [#479]: regression when parsing optional values with `serde`
- [#481]: `Time` subtracted from `Time` can panic. This was caused by a bug that has always existed,
  in that an internal invariant was not upheld. Memory safety was not violated.

## 0.3.10 [2022-06-19]

### Added

- Serde support for non-self-describing formats
- `Duration::unsigned_abs`, which returns a `std::time::Duration`
- ISO 8601 well-known format
- `Duration` can now be formatted with a `.N` specifier, providing a shorter representation when
  using `Display`.
- Parse `null` as `None` on serde structs

### Fixed

- Fix incorrect parsing of UTC offset in `Rfc3339`.

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.57.0.
- Performance for `Rfc2822` has been improved.
- Debug assertions have been added in a few places. This should have no user facing impact, as it
  only serves to catch bugs and is disabled in release mode.

## 0.3.9 [2022-03-22]

### Added

- `time::serde::format_description!`
  - This macro is similar to `time::format_description!`, but it generates a module that can be used
    in `#[serde(with = "foo")]`. This makes it far easier to serialize/deserialize a custom format.
- `Date::replace_year`
- `Date::replace_month`
- `Date::replace_day`
- `Time::replace_hour`
- `Time::replace_minute`
- `Time::replace_second`
- `Time::replace_millisecond`
- `Time::replace_microsecond`
- `Time::replace_nanosecond`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_year`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_month`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_day`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_hour`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_minute`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_second`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_millisecond`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_microsecond`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_nanosecond`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_year`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_month`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_day`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_hour`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_minute`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_second`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_millisecond`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_microsecond`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_nanosecond`
- `Parsed::offset_minute_signed`
- `Parsed::offset_second_signed`
- `Parsed::set_offset_minute_signed`
- `Parsed::set_offset_second_signed`
- `Parsed::with_offset_minute_signed`
- `Parsed::with_offset_second_signed`
- `error::InvalidVariant`
- `impl FromStr` for `Weekday`
- `impl FromStr` for `Month`
- `impl Display for Duration`

### Deprecated

The following methods have been deprecated in favor of the new, signed equivalent methods. The
pre-existing methods

- `Parsed::offset_minute`
- `Parsed::offset_second`
- `Parsed::set_offset_minute`
- `Parsed::set_offset_second`
- `Parsed::with_offset_minute`
- `Parsed::with_offset_second`

### Changed

- Well-known formats that support leap seconds now return the `TryFromParsed::ComponentRange` error
  variant if the leap second could not occur at that given moment.

## 0.3.8 [2022-02-22] [YANKED]

This release is broken and has been yanked.

## 0.3.7 [2022-01-26]

### Fixed

Solaris and Illumos build again.

## 0.3.6 [2022-01-20]

### Added

- `Date::saturating_add`
- `Date::saturating_sub`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::saturating_add`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::saturating_sub`
- `OffsetDateTime::saturating_add`
- `OffsetDateTime::saturating_sub`
- `PrimitiveDatetime::MIN`
- `PrimitiveDatetime::MAX`
- `Rfc2822` format description
- Serde support for well-known formats
  - This is placed behind the new `serde-well-known` feature flag.

### Changed

- MacOS and FreeBSD are supported obtaining the local offset when single-threaded.
  - Starting with this version, this is delegated to the `num_threads` crate.
- Leap seconds are now parsed as the final nanosecond of the preceding second.
- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.53.0.
- Deserializers for human readable formats will fall back to the binary format if the human readable
  format fails to deserialize.

### Fixed

- Deserialization will no longer fail when given a non-borrowed string.

## 0.3.5 [2021-11-12]

### Added

- `Date::checked_add`
- `Date::checked_sub`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::checked_add`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::checked_sub`
- `OffsetDateTime::checked_add`
- `OffsetDateTime::checked_sub`

### Changed

- Attempts to obtain the local UTC offset will now succeed on Linux if the process is
  single-threaded. This does not affect other Unix platforms. As a reminder, the relevant methods
  are fallible and may return an `Err` value for any reason.

## 0.3.4 [2021-10-26]

### Added

- `error::DifferentVariant` and `Error::DifferentVariant`
- `impl From<Component> for FormatItem<'_>`
- `impl TryFrom<FormatItem<'_>> for Component`
- `impl<'a> From<&'a [FormatItem<'_>]> for FormatItem<'a>`
- `impl<'a> TryFrom<FormatItem<'a>> for &[FormatItem<'a>]`
- `impl PartialEq<Component> for FormatItem<'_>`
- `impl PartialEq<FormatItem<'_>> for Component`
- `impl PartialEq<&[FormatItem<'_>]> for FormatItem<'_>`
- `impl PartialEq<FormatItem<'_>> for &[FormatItem<'_>]`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::TryFromParsed`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::Parse`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::ParseFromDescription`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::InvalidFormatDescription`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::IndeterminateOffset`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::Format`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::ConversionRange`
- `impl TryFrom<Error> for error::ComponentRange`
- `impl TryFrom<error::TryFromParsed> for error::ComponentRange`
- `impl TryFrom<error::Parse> for error::TryFromParsed`
- `impl TryFrom<error::Parse> for error::ParseFromDescription`
- `impl TryFrom<error::Format> for std::io::Error`
- `impl Sum for Duration`
- `impl Sum<&Duration> for Duration`
- A `const fn default()` has been added to all modifiers that are `struct`s. These methods exist to
  permit construction in `const` contexts and may be removed (without being considered a breaking
  change) once `impl const Default` is stabilized.
- `FormatItem::Optional`, which will consume the contained value if present but still succeed
  otherwise.
- `FormatItem::First`, which will consume the first successful parse, ignoring any prior errors.

### Fixed

- Cross-building to Windows now succeeds.
- A parse error on a `UtcOffset` component now indicates the error comes from the offset.
- Some arithmetic no longer panics in edge cases.

## 0.3.3 [2021-09-25]

### Added

- `Parsed::parse_item`
- `Parsed::parse_items`
- `Parsed::parse_literal`
- Builder methods for `Parsed`
- The `format_description!` macro now supports the `case_sensitive` modifier.

### Changed

The minimum supported version is now 1.51.0.

## 0.3.2 [2021-08-25]

### Added

- `Instant` is now `#[repr(transparent)]`

### Fixed

- Constructing a `Date` from its ISO year, week, and weekday now returns the correct value in all
  circumstances. Previously, dates with an ISO year less than zero may have returned incorrect
  values. This affects both the `Date::from_iso_week_date` method and the `date!` macro.

## 0.3.1 [2021-08-06]

### Added

- `Month` now implements `TryFrom<u8>`
- `From<Month>` is now implemented for `u8`
- The parser now accepts "5 PM" and similar as a valid time. Only the 12-hour clock hour and the
  AM/PM suffix may be present; any other components representing a time will cause an error (this
  exact behavior is not guaranteed).
- The `time!` macro accepts the "5 PM" syntax with the same restriction.

### Fixed

- Macros that have a time component (`time!` and `datetime!`) no longer accept "0:00 AM" and
  similar. This was previously erroneously accepted.

## 0.3.0 [2021-07-30]

### Added

- `datetime!` macro, which allows the construction of a statically verified `PrimitiveDateTime` or
  `OffsetDateTime`.
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_time`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::replace_date`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_time`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_date`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_date_time`
- `OffsetDateTime::replace_offset`
- `#![no_alloc]` support
- `Date::to_iso_week_date`, replacing `Date::iso_year_week`
- `Date::MIN`
- `Date::MAX`
- `UtcOffset::from_hms`
- `UtcOffset::from_whole_seconds`
- `UtcOffset::as_hms`
- `UtcOffset::whole_hours`
- `UtcOffset::whole_minutes`
- `UtcOffset::minutes_past_hour`
- `UtcOffset::seconds_past_minute`
- `UtcOffset::is_utc`
- `UtcOffset::is_positive`
- `UtcOffset::is_negative`
- `OffsetDateTime::sunday_based_week`
- `OffsetDateTime::monday_based_week`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::to_calendar_date`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::to_ordinal_date`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::to_iso_week_date`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::to_julian_day`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_calendar_date`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_ordinal_date`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_iso_week_date`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_julian_day`
- `Time::as_hms`
- `Time::as_hms_milli`
- `Time::as_hms_micro`
- `Time::as_hms_nano`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::as_hms`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::as_hms_milli`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::as_hms_micro`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::as_hms_nano`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_hms`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_hms_milli`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_hms_micro`
- `OffsetDateTime::to_hms_nano`
- `Duration::saturating_add`
- `Duration::saturating_sub`
- `Duration::saturating_mul`
- `util::days_in_year_month`
- `Month`
- `Instant::into_inner`
- `impl AsRef<StdInstant>` and `impl Borrow<StdInstant>` for `Instant`
- Support for obtaining the local UTC offset on Unix-like systems has been re-added under a
  user-provided flag. This functionality is not tested in any way and is not guaranteed to work.
  Library authors are unable to enable this feature, as it must be passed via `RUSTFLAGS`. Further
  information is available in the documentation.

### Changed

- The minimum supported Rust version is now 1.48.0. Per the policy in the README, this may be bumped
  within the 0.3 series without being a breaking change.
- rand has been updated to 0.8.
- quickcheck has been updated to 1.0.
- Macros are placed behind the `macros` feature flag.
- Renamed
  - `OffsetDatetime::timestamp` → `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp`
  - `OffsetDatetime::timestamp_nanos` → `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp_nanos`
  - `Date::try_from_ymd` → `Date::from_calendar_date`
  - `Date::try_from_yo` → `Date::from_ordinal_date`
  - `Date::try_from_iso_ywd` → `Date::from_iso_week_date`
  - `Date::as_ymd` → `Date::to_calendar_date`
  - `Date::as_yo` → `Date::to_ordinal_date`
  - `Date::try_with_hms` → `Date::with_hms`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_milli` → `Date::with_hms_milli`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_micro` → `Date::with_hms_micro`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_nano` → `Date::with_hms_nano`
  - `Time::try_from_hms` → `Time::from_hms`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_milli` → `Time::from_hms_milli`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_micro` → `Time::from_hms_micro`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_nano` → `Time::from_hms_nano`
  - `UtcOffset::try_local_offset_at` → `UtcOffset::local_offset_at`
  - `UtcOffset::as_seconds` → `UtcOffset::whole_seconds`
  - `OffsetDateTime::try_now_local` → `OffsetDateTime::now_local`
  - `Date::week` → `Date::iso_week`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::week` → `PrimitiveDateTime::iso_week`
  - `OffsetDateTime::week` → `OffsetDateTime::iso_week`
  - `Date::julian_day` → `Date::to_julian_day`
  - All `Duration` unit values, as well as the minimum and maximum, are now associated constants.
  - `OffsetDateTime::unix_epoch()` → `OffsetDateTime::UNIX_EPOCH`
  - `Time::midnight()` → `Time::MIDNIGHT`
- Now `const fn` (on at least newer compilers)
  - `Date::weekday`
  - `Date::next_day`
  - `Date::previous_day`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::assume_offset`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::weekday`
  - `Duration::checked_add`
  - `Duration::checked_sub`
  - `Duration::checked_mul`
  - `OffsetDateTime::from_unix_timestamp`
  - `OffsetDateTime::from_unix_timestamp_nanos`
  - `OffsetDateTime::date`
  - `OffsetDateTime::time`
  - `OffsetDateTime::year`
  - `OffsetDateTime::month`
  - `OffsetDateTime::day`
  - `OffsetDateTime::ordinal`
  - `OffsetDateTime::to_iso_week_date`
  - `OffsetDateTime::week`
  - `OffsetDateTime::weekday`
  - `OffsetDateTime::hour`
  - `OffsetDateTime::minute`
  - `OffsetDateTime::second`
  - `OffsetDateTime::millisecond`
  - `OffsetDateTime::microsecond`
  - `OffsetDateTime::nanosecond`
  - `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp`
  - `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp_nanos`
- The following functions now return a `Result`:
  - `Date::from_julian_day`
  - `OffsetDateTime::from_unix_timestamp`
  - `OffsetDateTime::from_unix_timestamp_nanos`
- The following functions now return an `Option`:
  - `Date::next_day`
  - `Date::previous_day`
- The range of valid years has changed. By default, it is ±9999. When using the `large-dates`
  feature, this is increased to ±999,999. Enabling the feature has performance implications and
  introduces ambiguities when parsing.
- The following are now gated under the `local-offset` feature:
  - `UtcOffset::local_offset_at`
  - `OffsetDateTime::now_local`
- `Instant` is now guaranteed to be represented as a tuple struct containing a `std::time::Instant`.
- Macros are guaranteed to be evaluated at compile time.
- `Date::to_julian_day` now returns an `i32` (was `i64`).
- `Date::from_julian_day` now accepts an `i32` (was `i64`).
- Extension traits are only implemented for some types and are now sealed. As they are intended to
  be used with value literals, the breakage caused by this should be minimal.
- The new `Month` enum is used instead of numerical values where appropriate.

### Removed

- v0.1 APIs, previously behind an enabled-by-default feature flag
  - `PreciseTime`
  - `SteadyTime`
  - `precise_time_ns`
  - `precise_time_s`
  - `Instant::to`
  - `Duration::num_weeks`
  - `Duration::num_days`
  - `Duration::num_hours`
  - `Duration::num_minutes`
  - `Duration::num_seconds`
  - `Duration::num_milliseconds`
  - `Duration::num_microseconds`
  - `Duration::num_nanoseconds`
  - `Duration::span`
  - `Duration::from_std`
  - `Duration::to_std`
- Panicking APIs, previously behind a non-default feature flag
  - `Date::from_ymd`
  - `Date::from_yo`
  - `Date::from_iso_ywd`
  - `Date::with_hms`
  - `Date::with_hms_milli`
  - `Date::with_hms_micro`
  - `Date::with_hms_nano`
  - `Time::from_hms`
  - `Time::from_hms_milli`
  - `Time::from_hms_micro`
  - `Time::from_hms_nano`
- APIs that assumed an offset of UTC, previously enabled unconditionally
  - `Date::today`
  - `Time::now`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::now`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::unix_epoch`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::from_unix_timestamp`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::timestamp`
  - `OffsetDateTime::now`
  - `impl Sub<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl Sub<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl PartialOrd<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl PartialOrd<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl From<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl From<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `UtcOffset::local_offset_at` — assumed UTC if unable to determine local offset
  - `OffsetDateTime::now_local` — assumed UTC if unable to determine local offset
- Other APIs deprecated during the course of 0.2, previously enabled unconditionally
  - `Duration::sign`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::using_offset`
  - `Sign`
- Re-exports of APIs moved during the course of 0.2
  - `days_in_year`
  - `is_leap_year`
  - `validate_format_string`
  - `weeks_in_year`
  - `ComponentRangeError`
  - `ConversionRangeError`
  - `IndeterminateOffsetError`
  - `ParseError`
  - `NumericalDuration`
  - `NumericalStdDuration`
  - `NumericalStdDurationShort`
  - All top-level macros
- Lazy formatting, which was unidiomatic as a failure would have returned `fmt::Error`, indicating
  an error unrelated to the time crate.
  - `Time::lazy_format`
  - `Date::lazy_format`
  - `UtcOffset::lazy_format`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::lazy_format`
  - `OffsetDateTime::lazy_format`
- Support for stdweb has been removed, as the crate is unmaintained.
- The `prelude` module has been removed in its entirety.
- `Date::iso_year_week` in favor of `Date::to_iso_week_date`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::iso_year_week`
- `OffsetDateTime::iso_year_week`
- `UtcOffset::east_hours`
- `UtcOffset::west_hours`
- `UtcOffset::hours`
- `UtcOffset::east_minutes`
- `UtcOffset::west_minutes`
- `UtcOffset::minutes`
- `UtcOffset::east_seconds`
- `UtcOffset::west_seconds`
- `UtcOffset::seconds`
- `Date::month_day`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::month_day`
- `OffsetDateTime::month_day`
- `Weekday::iso_weekday_number` (identical to `Weekday::number_from_monday`)
- `ext::NumericalStdDurationShort`

## 0.2.26 [2021-03-16]

### Fixed

- #316, where the build script was wrongly unable to determine the correct compiler version
- Dependencies have been bumped to the latest patch version, ensuring compatibility.

## 0.2.25 [2021-01-24]

### Fixed

- Fix #309, which can cause panics in certain situations.

## 0.2.24 [2021-01-08]

### Fixed

- The implementation of `OffsetDateTime::timestamp`, `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp`,
  `PrimitiveDatetime::timestamp`, and `OffsetDateTime::unix_timestamp` have been corrected. This
  affects all negative timestamps with a nonzero subsecond value.

## 0.2.23 [2020-11-17]

### Compatibility notes

Due to #293, any method that requires knowledge of the local offset will now
_fail_ on Linux. For `try_` methods, this means returning an error. For others,
it means assuming UTC.

### Deprecated

- `UtcOffset::timestamp` (moved to `UtcOffset::unix_timestamp`)
- `UtcOffset::timestamp_nanos` (moved to `UtcOffset::unix_timestamp_nanos`)
- `date` (moved to `macros::date`)
- `time` (moved to `macros::time`)
- `offset` (moved to `macros::offset`)
- `OffsetDateTime::now_local` (assumes UTC if unable to be determined)
- `UtcOffset::local_offset_at` (assumes UTC if unable to be determined)
- `UtcOffset::current_local_offset` (assumes UTC if unable to be determined)

## 0.2.22 [2020-09-25]

### Fixed

- Solaris & Illumos now successfully build.
- `Duration::new` could previously result in an inconsistent internal state. This led to some odd
  situations where a `Duration` could be both positive and negative. This has been fixed such that
  the internal state maintains its invariants.

## 0.2.21 [2020-09-20]

### Changed

- Implementation details of some error types have been exposed. This means that data about a
  component being out of range can be directly obtained, while an invalid offset or conversion error
  is guaranteed to be a zero-sized type.
- The following functions are `const fn` on rustc ≥ 1.46:
  - `Date::try_from_iso_ywd`
  - `Date::iso_year_week`
  - `Date::week`
  - `Date::sunday_based_week`
  - `Date::monday_based_week`
  - `Date::try_with_hms`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_milli`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_micro`
  - `Date::try_with_hms_nano`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::iso_year_week`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::week`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::sunday_based_week`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::monday_based_week`
  - `util::weeks_in_year`

## 0.2.20 [2020-09-16]

### Added

- `OffsetDateTime::timestamp_nanos`
- `OffsetDateTime::from_unix_timestamp_nanos`

### Fixed

A bug with far-reaching consequences has been fixed. See #276 for complete details, but the gist is
that the constructing a `Date` from a valid Julian day may result in an invalid value or even panic.
As a consequence of implementation details, this affects nearly all arithmetic with `Date`s (and as
a result also `PrimitiveDateTime`s and `OffsetDateTime`s).

### Improvements

- Document how to construct an `OffsetDateTime` from a timestamp-nanosecond pair

## 0.2.19 [2020-09-12]

### Fixed

- The build script now declares a dependency on the `COMPILING_UNDER_CARGO_WEB` environment
  variable.
- Parsing the `%D` specifier no longer requires padding on the month. Previously,
  `Err(InvalidMonth)` was incorrectly returned.
- A `std::time::Duration` that is larger than `time::Duration::max_value()` now correctly returns
  `Ordering::Greater` when compared.
- Multiplying and assigning an integer by `Sign::Zero` now sets the integer to be zero. This
  previously left the integer unmodified.

## 0.2.18 [2020-09-08]

### Changed

- The following functions are `const fn` on rustc ≥ 1.46:
  - `Date::try_from_ymd`
  - `Date::try_from_yo`
  - `Time::try_from_hms`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_milli`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_micro`
  - `Time::try_from_hms_nano`
- An `error` module has been created where all existing error types are contained. The `Error`
  suffix has been dropped from these types.
- An `ext` module has been created where extension traits are contained.
- A `util` module has been created where utility functions are contained.
- `error::ComponentRange` now implements `Copy`.

For back-compatibility, all items that were moved to newly-contained modules have been re-exported
from their previous locations (and in the case of the `error` module, with their previous name).

### Fixes

Parsing `format::Rfc3339` now correctly handles the UTC offset (#274).

## 0.2.17 [2020-09-01]

### Changed

The following functions are `const fn` on rustc ≥ 1.46:

- `Date::year`
- `Date::month`
- `Date::day`
- `Date::month_day`
- `Date::ordinal`
- `Date::as_ymd`
- `Date::as_yo`
- `Date::julian_day`
- `Duration::checked_div`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::year`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::month`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::day`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::month_day`
- `PrimitiveDateTime::ordinal`
- `Weekday::previous`
- `Weekday::next`

### Improvements

- `size_of::<Date>()` has been reduced from 8 to 4. As a consequence,
  `size_of::<PrimitiveDatetime>()` went from 16 to 12 and `size_of::<OffsetDateTime>()` from 20
  to 16. This change also results in a performance improvement of approximately 30% on the
  `Date::year` and `Date::ordinal` methods.
- `cfg-if` has been removed as a dependency.

### Fixed

- `cfg` flags passed to rustc will no longer collide with other crates (at least unless they're
  doing something very stupid).
- The crate will successfully compile with any combination of feature flags. Previously, some
  combinations would fail.

## 0.2.16 [2020-05-12]

### Added

`OffsetDateTime`s can now be represented as Unix timestamps with serde. To do this, you can use the
`time::serde::timestamp` and `time::serde::timestamp::option` modules.

## 0.2.15 [2020-05-04]

### Fixed

`cargo-web` support works, and is now explicitly checked in CI. A previous change was made that made
a method call ambiguous.

## 0.2.14 [2020-05-02]

### Fixed

Adding/subtracting a `core::time::Duration` now correctly takes subsecond values into account. This
also affects `PrimitiveDateTime` and `OffsetDateTime`.

## 0.2.13 [2020-05-01]

### Fixed

Panicking APIs are re-exposed.

## 0.2.12 [2020-04-30]

### Fixed

Subtracting `Instant`s can correctly result in a negative duration, rather than resulting in the
absolute value of it.

## 0.2.11 [2020-04-27]

### Added

- `OffsetDateTime::now_utc`

### Deprecated

- `OffsetDateTime::now` due to the offset not being clear from the method name alone.

### Fixed

`Date`s are now uniformly random when using the `rand` crate. Previously, both the year and day
within the year were uniform, but this meant that any given day in a leap year was slightly less
likely to be chosen than a day in a non-leap year.

### Changed

- MSRV is lowered to 1.32.0.

## 0.2.10 [2020-04-19]

### Added

- Support for formatting and parsing `OffsetDateTime`s as RFC3339.
- Lazy formatting. To avoid exposing implementation details, we're just returning `impl Display`,
  rather than a concrete type.
- Add support for Illumos.

### Fixed

- Deprecated APIs from time v0.1 are public again. They were previously hidden by accident in 0.2.9.

## 0.2.9 [2020-03-13]

### Fixed

`cfg-if` now has a mandatory minimum of 0.1.10, rather than just 0.1. This is because compilation
fails when using 0.1.9.

## 0.2.8 [2020-03-12]

### Added

- `cargo_web` support has been added for getting a local offset. A general catch-all defaulting to
  UTC has also been added.
- `Error::source` has been implemented for the wrapper `time::Error`.
- `UtcOffset::try_local_offset`, `UtcOffset::try_current_local_offset`,
  `OffsetDateTime::try_now_local()` provide fallible alternatives when the default of UTC is not
  desired. To facilitate this change, `IndeterminateOffsetError` has been added.
- Support for parsing and formatting subsecond nanoseconds.

### Changed

- `#[non_exhaustive]` is simulated on compilers prior to 1.40.0.

## 0.2.7 [2020-02-22]

### Added

- `Display` has been implemented for `Date`, `OffsetDateTime`, `PrimitiveDateTime`, `Time`,
  `UtcOffset`, and `Weekday`.
- `Hash` is now derived for `Duration`.
- `SystemTime` can be converted to and from `OffsetDateTime`. The following trait implementations
  have been made for interoperability:
  - `impl Sub<SystemTime> for OffsetDateTime`
  - `impl Sub<OffsetDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<SystemTime> for OffsetDateTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<OffsetDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl PartialOrd<SystemTime> for OffsetDateTime`
  - `impl PartialOrd<OffsetDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl From<SystemTime> for OffsetDateTime`
  - `impl From<OffsetDateTime> for SystemTime`
- All structs now `impl Duration<T> for Standard`, allowing usage with the `rand` crate. This is
  gated behind the `rand` feature flag.
- Documentation can now be built on stable. Some annotations will be missing if you do this.
- `NumericalDuration` has been implemented for `f32` and `f64`. `NumericalStdDuration` and
  `NumericalStdDurationShort` have been implemented for `f64` only.
- `UtcOffset::local_offset_at(OffsetDateTime)`, which will obtain the system's local offset at the
  provided moment in time.
  - `OffsetDateTime::now_local()` is equivalent to calling
    `OffsetDateTime::now().to_offset(UtcOffset::local_offset_at(OffsetDateTime::now()))` (but more
    efficient).
  - `UtcOffset::current_local_offset()` will return the equivalent of
    `OffsetDateTime::now_local().offset()`.

### Changed

- All formatting and parsing methods now accept `impl AsRef<str>` as parameters, rather than just
  `&str`. `time::validate_format_string` does this as well.
- The requirement of a `Date` being between the years -100,000 and +100,000 (inclusive) is now
  strictly enforced.
- Overflow checks for `Duration` are now enabled by default. This behavior is the identical to what
  the standard library does.
- The `time`, `date`, and `offset` macros have been added to the prelude.

### Deprecated

- `Sign` has been deprecated in its entirety, along with `Duration::sign`.

  To obtain the sign of a `Duration`, you can use the `Duration::is_positive`,
  `Duration::is_negative`, and `Duration::is_zero` methods.

- A number of functions and trait implementations that implicitly assumed a timezone (generally UTC)
  have been deprecated. These are:
  - `Date::today`
  - `Time::now`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::now`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::unix_epoch`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::from_unix_timestamp`
  - `PrimitiveDateTime::timestamp`
  - `impl Sub<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl Sub<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl PartialEq<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime>`
  - `impl PartialOrd<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl PartialOrd<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime>`
  - `impl From<SystemTime> for PrimitiveDateTime`
  - `impl From<PrimitiveDateTime> for SystemTime`

### Fixed

- Avoid panics when parsing an empty string (#215).
- The nanoseconds component of a `Duration` is now always in range. Previously, it was possible (via
  addition and/or subtraction) to obtain a value that was not internally consistent.
- `Time::parse` erroneously returned an `InvalidMinute` error when it was actually the second that
  was invalid.
- `Date::parse("0000-01-01", "%Y-%m-%d")` incorrectly returned an `Err` (#221).

## Pre-0.2.7

Prior to v0.2.7, changes were listed in GitHub releases.

[keep a changelog]: https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/
[semantic versioning]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
